# Fluid
[Fluid](http://fluidapp.com/) is great. Take your favorite website, and make it an app. Genius? ***Completely***. Addicting? ***Entirely***.

## Resources

### Icons
Sometimes when I make an app, the favicon offered by its website is high-quality enough that I'm satisfied using it as the app icon. This usually isn't the case though, so more often than not I find myself turning to the interwebs for a suitable PNG. Help yourself to [my collection]. Icon previews are generated by running [this post-commit hook](https://github.com/SteveBenner/ruby-scripts/blob/master/git-hooks/pre-commit/generate-img-previews.rb).

## Userstyles
- Styles are written in SASS and compiled using Compass.
- For each Fluid app there is a corresponding SASS template with identical name, which compiles to a CSS file loaded as the default `userstyle` for that app.
- SASS partials provide flexibility in that they may be included into any app SASS file arbitrarily, but also act as templates for standalone `userstyle`.
- Patterns are handled in configuration. #todo: link to config file or section

##### Developer Note:  
[RubyMine](http://www.jetbrains.com/ruby/) really comes in handy for simple asset management--especially the latest version, which has built-in support for file watchers that can provide compilation, compression, source maps, etc. via a single-click-install plugin. I often set up my projects to continuously monitor my SASS and CoffeeScript files and apply conversion and compression automatically, saving the resultant assets wherever I need them. The plugin configuration is highly flexible, and I quite recommend taking advantage of these tools.

## Development

**Tools I'm using**  

- Compass
- SAAS
- CoffeeScript

### Websites
- **TIP:** You can make your website Fluid-friendly by providing a nice high-def icon via a simple LINK tag.

    Example: `<link rel="fluid-icon" href="image-URI" title="app-name" />`

    > Set the `rel` to `fluid-icon`, the `href` to the high-res image location, and the `title` to the proposed application title and you're done! ([source](http://davidwalsh.name/fluid-app))

    Frankly I'm surprised this bears no mention on the [official Fluid developer page]; it's a very nice touch!

##### Conventions
- When I append the word 'Mini' to an app name, it means this app is designated to be pinned in the menu bar, that I've most-likely slimmed down the app's appearance and/or content with CSS, and generally it's mean to be a 'lean' version of a website, similar in implementation to a 'mobile' version. So far I've enjoyed the results from this, especially with apps such as: Last.fm, 


## Custom Fluid Apps
They're coming... Oh, yes.

For now, I make do with small amenities like this: take a half-dozen or so of your most-used online utilities and tools, open them up as separate tabs, and *voila--* Recently I had the idea of making an app called **DataTools** from half-a-dozen or so of my favorite online tools and utilities, opened up in different tabs. Though Fluid is categorized as an **SSB** dragging a bunch of utility sites into a Fluid app and calling it 'DataTools' or something like that. Stick it in the menu bar, and you're saving yourself a dozen bookmarks and/or tabs open.

---

### COMING SOMEDAY: Fluidly, a tool suite for working with Fluid apps!
I've started a micro library to act as an object-oriented interface for working with userstyles and userscripts, and I have plans to grow it into a fully fledged tool suite for enhancing Fluid app development.

[official Fluid developer page]:http://fluidapp.com/developer/
[my collection]:app-icons/README.md